README.md, before:

# Mobile Network Capacity Checker

![Logo](https://www.itu.int/web/pp-18/assets/logo/itu_logo.png)
![BSD-3 License](https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/prtg-pyprobe) 
[![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3776AB.svg?style=flat&logo=Python&logoColor=white)](https://www.python.org/)

## Overview

The Mobile Network Capacity Model is a geospatial tool designed to assess the adequacy of cellular network connectivity for critical locations such as hospitals, schools, and residential areas (collectively known as points of interest or POIs). This model evaluates whether the available bandwidth from cell towers is sufficient to meet the internet usage demands of these points of interest (POIs).

## Usage example

There are [examples](notebooks/examples/) with test data on how to use this tool.

The image below is an example of a mobile network coverage and capacity map created by our Mobile Network Capacity Checker. It shows the locations of cell towers and their service areas, along with the points of interest that have or don't have sufficient mobile cellular service capacity.

![Example](https://i.postimg.cc/d3MHnLMz/STP-dummy-data.png)

## Technical documentation

See our [technical documentation](https://fns-division.github.io/mobile-network-capacity-model-documentation/) for in-depth information on our mobile network capacity models, including instructions on how to use each function.

## Repository structure

```sh
mobile-network-capacity-model
├── CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
├── CONTRIBUTING.md
├── LICENSE.txt
├── README.md
├── data
│   ├── input_data # Input data
│   │   └── ESP # One sub-folder for each country
│   │       ├── points-of-interest.csv
│   │       ├── cell-sites.csv
│   │       ├── population
│   │       │   └── ESP_ppp_2020_1km_Aggregated_UNadj.tif
│   │       └── srtm1
│   │           └── N00E006.SRTMGL1.hgt.zip
│   └── output_data # Output data
│       └── ESP # One sub-folder for each country
│           └── poi-capacity-sufficiency.csv
├── data_templates # Templates to provide data in the right format
│   ├── cell_sites
│   │   └── cell-sites.csv
│   ├── point_of_interest
│   │   └── points-of-interest.csv
│   ├── visibility
│   │   └── visibility.csv
│   └── required-columns.csv
├── environment.yml
├── logs
│   └── log-with-date.log
├── mobile_capacity # Toolkit modules
│   ├── capacity.py
│   ├── datastorage.py
│   ├── entities
│   │   ├── cellsite.py
│   │   ├── entity.py
│   │   ├── pointofinterest.py
│   │   └── visibilitypair.py
│   ├── handlers
│   │   ├── populationdatahandler.py
│   │   └── srtmdatahandler.py
│   ├── rmalos.py
│   ├── spatial.py
│   ├── utils.py
│   └── visibility.py
├── notebooks # Analysis notebooks: template and examples
│   ├── template.ipynb
│   └── examples
│      ├── Ibiza.ipynb
│      └── Sao-Tome-and-Principe.ipynb
└── tests # Testing files
    ├── conftest.py
    ├── data
    └── unit
        └── test_class.py
```

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have the following installed:
- Python 3.9
- Conda
- Jupyter Notebook or JupyterLab

You can verify the installations by running these commands:

```bash
python --version
conda --version
jupyter --version
```

If any of these commands fail or show an outdated version:
- Python: Download from [python.org](www.python.org)
- Conda: Follow the official [Conda installation guide](https://conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/getting-started.html)
- Jupyter: Install via Conda after setting up your environment.

```bash
conda install jupyter
```

## Installation steps

1. Clone the Repository:
    Clone the repository to your local machine using the following command:

```bash
git clone git@ssh.dev.azure.com:v3/ITUINT/ConnectivityToolkit/mobile-network-capacity-model
```

2. Navigate to the directory:
```bash
cd mobile-network-capacity-model
```

3. Create a virtual environment with the required dependencies via [conda](https://www.anaconda.com/download):
```bash
conda env create --file environment.yml
conda activate mobilecapacityenv
```

## Preparing your data

In order to conduct your analysis, you will need to provide the tool with the following geospatial data in CSV format:

- Points of interest locations
- Cell site locations

We have provided data templates in the [data templates](data_templates) folder, which specify the required columns for each dataset and the accepted values.

It is also possible to provide data on the visibility status between each point of interest and cell site, but this is not a requirement as the checker automates these calculations in the background.

## Running your analysis

To conduct your analysis using the Mobile Network Capacity Model, follow these steps:

1. **Prepare Your Data**: 
   Place your input data files in the `data/input_data/<country-code>` directory. For example, for Spain, include your geospatial data in CSV format in sub-folder `data/input_data/ESP`. Use [ISO-3 three-letter codes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-3) to identify your country. Ensure your data is in the correct format as specified in the technical documentation.

2. **Create a Jupyter Notebook to run your analysis**:
   Copy the notebook template from `notebooks/template.ipynb`, and insert the copy in the folder `notebooks`. For example, `notebooks/my_analysis.ipynb`.

3. **Configure Analysis Parameters**: 
   In your analysis notebook (for example, `notebooks/my_analysis.ipynb`) locate the configuration cells and adjust the parameters according to your specific analysis requirements.

4. **Execute the Analysis**:
   Run through the notebook cells sequentially. Each cell contains explanations and code for different stages of the analysis. During the analysis run, auxiliary files related to topography (Source: [NASA](https://portal.opentopography.org/raster?opentopoID=OTSRTM.082015.4326.1)) and population (Source: [Worldpop](https://www.worldpop.org/)) in the area covered by the points of interest and cell sites will automatically be downloaded into the `data/input_data/<country-code>` folder (in sub-folders called `srtm1` and `population`). You do not need to directly manipulate these files.

5. **Review Results**: 
   After execution, find your output data and visualizations in the `data/output_data/<country-code>` directory. The notebook will also display key results and graphs inline.

6. **Iterate if Necessary**: 
   Based on your initial results, you may want to adjust parameters or input data. Simply update the relevant sections and re-run the affected cells or the entire notebook.

For a more detailed walkthrough, refer to our [technical documentation](https://fns-division.github.io/mobile-network-capacity-model-documentation/).

## Contributing

Contributions are always welcome.

See our [contributing page](CONTRIBUTING.md) for ways to contribute to the project.

Please adhere to this project's [code of conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

## Support

If you need help or have any questions, please contact [fns@itu.int](fns@itu.int).

## Acknowledgements

We would like to thank our partners at Ericsson for helping us develop this tool.

## License

[BSD-3-Clause](LICENSE.txt)

Commit message:

add notebook on how to get open data

README.md, after:

# Mobile Network Capacity Checker

![Logo](https://www.itu.int/web/pp-18/assets/logo/itu_logo.png)
![BSD-3 License](https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/prtg-pyprobe) 
[![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3776AB.svg?style=flat&logo=Python&logoColor=white)](https://www.python.org/)

## Overview

The Mobile Network Capacity Model is a geospatial tool designed to assess the adequacy of cellular network connectivity for critical locations such as hospitals, schools, and residential areas (collectively known as points of interest or POIs). This model evaluates whether the available bandwidth from cell towers is sufficient to meet the internet usage demands of these points of interest (POIs).

## Usage example

There are [examples](notebooks/examples/) with test data on how to use this tool.

The image below is an example of a mobile network coverage and capacity map created by our Mobile Network Capacity Checker. It shows the locations of cell towers and their service areas, along with the points of interest that have or don't have sufficient mobile cellular service capacity.

![Example](https://i.postimg.cc/d3MHnLMz/STP-dummy-data.png)

## Sourcing open data

We have provide an [example](notebooks/get_open_data.ipynb) to follow along of how to source open data on amenities and cell sites.

## Technical documentation

See our [technical documentation](https://fns-division.github.io/mobile-network-capacity-model-documentation/) for in-depth information on our mobile network capacity models, including instructions on how to use each function.

## Repository structure

```sh
mobile-network-capacity-model
├── CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
├── CONTRIBUTING.md
├── LICENSE.txt
├── README.md
├── data
│   ├── input_data # Input data
│   │   └── ESP # One sub-folder for each country
│   │       ├── points-of-interest.csv
│   │       ├── cell-sites.csv
│   │       ├── population
│   │       │   └── ESP_ppp_2020_1km_Aggregated_UNadj.tif
│   │       └── srtm1
│   │           └── N00E006.SRTMGL1.hgt.zip
│   └── output_data # Output data
│       └── ESP # One sub-folder for each country
│           └── poi-capacity-sufficiency.csv
├── data_templates # Templates to provide data in the right format
│   ├── cell_sites
│   │   └── cell-sites.csv
│   ├── point_of_interest
│   │   └── points-of-interest.csv
│   ├── visibility
│   │   └── visibility.csv
│   └── required-columns.csv
├── environment.yml
├── logs
│   └── log-with-date.log
├── mobile_capacity # Toolkit modules
│   ├── capacity.py
│   ├── datastorage.py
│   ├── entities
│   │   ├── cellsite.py
│   │   ├── entity.py
│   │   ├── pointofinterest.py
│   │   └── visibilitypair.py
│   ├── handlers
│   │   ├── populationdatahandler.py
│   │   └── srtmdatahandler.py
│   ├── rmalos.py
│   ├── spatial.py
│   ├── utils.py
│   └── visibility.py
├── notebooks # Analysis notebooks: template and examples
│   ├── template.ipynb
│   ├── get_open_data.ipynb
│   └── examples
│      ├── Ibiza.ipynb
│      └── Sao-Tome-and-Principe.ipynb
└── tests # Testing files
    ├── conftest.py
    ├── data
    └── unit
        └── test_class.py
```

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have the following installed:
- Python 3.9
- Conda
- Jupyter Notebook or JupyterLab

You can verify the installations by running these commands:

```bash
python --version
conda --version
jupyter --version
```

If any of these commands fail or show an outdated version:
- Python: Download from [python.org](www.python.org)
- Conda: Follow the official [Conda installation guide](https://conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/getting-started.html)
- Jupyter: Install via Conda after setting up your environment.

```bash
conda install jupyter
```

## Installation steps

1. Clone the Repository:
    Clone the repository to your local machine using the following command:

```bash
git clone git@ssh.dev.azure.com:v3/ITUINT/ConnectivityToolkit/mobile-network-capacity-model
```

2. Navigate to the directory:
```bash
cd mobile-network-capacity-model
```

3. Create a virtual environment with the required dependencies via [conda](https://www.anaconda.com/download):
```bash
conda env create --file environment.yml
conda activate mobilecapacityenv
```

## Preparing your data

In order to conduct your analysis, you will need to provide the tool with the following geospatial data in CSV format:

- Points of interest locations
- Cell site locations

We have provided data templates in the [data templates](data_templates) folder, which specify the required columns for each dataset and the accepted values.

It is also possible to provide data on the visibility status between each point of interest and cell site, but this is not a requirement as the checker automates these calculations in the background.

## Running your analysis

To conduct your analysis using the Mobile Network Capacity Model, follow these steps:

1. **Prepare Your Data**: 
   Place your input data files in the `data/input_data/<country-code>` directory. For example, for Spain, include your geospatial data in CSV format in sub-folder `data/input_data/ESP`. Use [ISO-3 three-letter codes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-3) to identify your country. Ensure your data is in the correct format as specified in the technical documentation.
   
   If you do not have data on points of interest or cell sites, you may obtain data from open sources by following the [example notebook](notebooks/get_open_data.ipynb).

2. **Create a Jupyter Notebook to run your analysis**:
   Copy the notebook template from `notebooks/template.ipynb`, and insert the copy in the folder `notebooks`. For example, `notebooks/my_analysis.ipynb`.

3. **Configure Analysis Parameters**: 
   In your analysis notebook (for example, `notebooks/my_analysis.ipynb`) locate the configuration cells and adjust the parameters according to your specific analysis requirements.

4. **Execute the Analysis**:
   Run through the notebook cells sequentially. Each cell contains explanations and code for different stages of the analysis. During the analysis run, auxiliary files related to topography (Source: [NASA](https://portal.opentopography.org/raster?opentopoID=OTSRTM.082015.4326.1)) and population (Source: [Worldpop](https://www.worldpop.org/)) in the area covered by the points of interest and cell sites will automatically be downloaded into the `data/input_data/<country-code>` folder (in sub-folders called `srtm1` and `population`). You do not need to directly manipulate these files.

5. **Review Results**: 
   After execution, find your output data and visualizations in the `data/output_data/<country-code>` directory. The notebook will also display key results and graphs inline.

6. **Iterate if Necessary**: 
   Based on your initial results, you may want to adjust parameters or input data. Simply update the relevant sections and re-run the affected cells or the entire notebook.

For a more detailed walkthrough, refer to our [technical documentation](https://fns-division.github.io/mobile-network-capacity-model-documentation/).

## Contributing

Contributions are always welcome.

See our [contributing page](CONTRIBUTING.md) for ways to contribute to the project.

Please adhere to this project's [code of conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

## Support

If you need help or have any questions, please contact [fns@itu.int](fns@itu.int).

## Acknowledgements

We would like to thank our partners at Ericsson for helping us develop this tool.

## License

[BSD-3-Clause](LICENSE.txt)
